

## Pre-selection of technologies

The technology evaluation started with a pre-selection of technologies
(i.e., libraries, framework, toolkits, models, etc.) for the different
components of the SIM-CORE platform, namely the front-end (client-side),
the web back-end (server-side), the communication models, and the
computational services.

The technology evaluation was mostly conducted by four experienced senior
developers, with additional input from open-source, full-stack
development, software quality management, and software (development)
management experts.

The criteria used for the pre-selection consisted primarily of three
factors:

- **Completeness**: the selected framework must include functions or
accept extensions that support features, which are key for its purpose.
For instance, a suitable web-framework must include features for routing,
database models, web-security, etc., which cover the essential
functionality expected for the server-side.
- **Sustainability**: the selected technology should be long-term
maintainable as an open-source project. Key measures of sustainability
considered here are its popularity, the support of the developers
community (i.e., documentation, fixes, releases, etc.), and the license
terms.
- **Productivity**: we believe that high productivity can be achieved
with the right combination of a suitable framework (e.g., complete, easy-
to-use, and sustainable) and the effectiveness of reusing existing
functionality and previous experience of the SIM-CORE team with specific
technologies. For that reason, the pre-selection should incorporate
options that combine both novel as well as already established
programming paradigms (e.g. languages, design-patterns, or even specific
frameworks).

## Review process

After the pre-selection of technologies, the review adopted a more
practical approach. Every group of technologies was tested within a given
context defined in a user story. Based on this approach, the evaluation
gradually transitioned from simpler to more realistic scenarios,
resulting in a collection of demos that are [published in the project
repository](https://github.com/ITISFoundation/osparc-
lab/tree/master/demos). Among all demos, there are three
[prototypes](parts/demos.md) that combine different technologies within
the full-stack and cover realistic scenarios expected in the final
platform. The specifics of each review are documented in place, next to
its correspond demo. Nonetheless, for the sake of clarity, 
we provide a summarized version of each review and the final
recommendations in this document.


